CSS grid layout guide refresh: grid lines and template areas (#38003)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_grid_layout/grid_layout_using_named_grid_lines/index.md

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Naming_lines_when_defining_a_grid', '500', '330') }}

Everything else about line-based placement still works in the same way. In our grid layout, we basically provided each numeric line with an alias name. In our grid items we reference a name rather than a number. Naming lines in this way is useful as, when creating a responsive design, we can update the container's grid properties rather than updating the grid items within each [media query](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_media_queries/Using_media_queries).

### Giving lines multiple names

You may want to give a line more than one name, perhaps it denotes the sidebar-end and the main-start for example. To do this add the names inside the square brackets with whitespace between them `[sidebar-end main-start]`. You can then refer to that line by either of the names.

## Implicit grid areas from named lines

> When naming the lines, we mentioned that you can name these anything you like. The name is a {{cssxref("custom ident")}}, an author-defined name. When choosing the name you need to avoid words that might appear in the specification and be confusing - such as `span`. Idents are not quoted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When naming the lines, we mentioned that you can name these anything you like. The name is a {{cssxref("custom-ident")}}, an author-defined name. When choosing the name you need to avoid words that might appear in the specification and be confusing - such as `span`. Idents are not quoted.
```

- `ft-start`
- `ft-end`

> You can see the named lines in the image. Mote that some lines have two names - for example `sd-end` and `main-start` refer to the same column line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see the named lines in the image. Note that some lines have two names - for example, `sd-end` and `main-start` refer to the same column line.
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Implicit_Grid_lines_from_named_areas', '500', '330') }}

> Given that we have this ability to position created lines from named areas and areas from named lines, it is worth taking a little bit of time to plan your naming strategy when starting out creating your grid layout. By selecting names that will make sense to you and your team, you will make using the layouts you create more inuitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given that we have this ability to position created lines from named areas and areas from named lines, it is worth taking a little bit of time to plan your naming strategy when starting out creating your grid layout. Selecting names that make sense to you and your team will make your layouts more intuitive.
```

}
```

Once you have created the grid you can place items onto it. As we have multiple lines named `col-start` if you place an item to start after line `col-start`, the first line named `col-start` will be used. In our case, this is the far left line. To address another line, use the name with the number for that line.

> To place an item spanning from the first line named `col-start` to the 5th with that name, we can use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To place an item spanning from the first line named `col-start` to the 5th line with that name, we can use:
```

```css
.item1to5 {
  grid-column: col-start / col-start 5;
}
```

You can also use the `span` keyword. This item will span 3 lines starting from the 7th line named `col-start`:

```css
.item7to9 {
  grid-column: col-start 7 / span 3;
}
```

```html
<div class="wrapper">
  <div class="item1to5">I am placed from col-start line 1 to col-start 5</div>
  <div class="item7to9">I am placed from col-start line 7 spanning 3 lines</div>
</div>
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Twelve-column_grid_using_repeat', '500', '120') }}

> If you take a look at this layout your browser's developer tools, you will see how the column lines are shown, and how our items are placed against these lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you look at this layout in your browser's developer tools, you will see how the column lines are shown, and how our items are placed against these lines.
```

}
```

We can then use this "framework" to lay out our page.

> For example, to create a three column layout with a header and footer, we might have the following markup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to create a three-column layout with a header and footer, we can use the following markup.
```

</div>
```

> We can place this on our grid layout framework:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can place this on our grid layout framework like so:
```

Author: It's not needed, and I think it's possibly incorrect before a colon. My understanding is a colon is preceded by a full sentence and indicates it is followed by a list, definition, or explanation.

}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Twelve-column_grid_framework', '500', '220') }}

Once again, the developer tool's grid highlighter is helpful to show us how the grid we have placed our items on works.

![The layout with the grid highlighted.](5_named_lines2.png)

> That's all we need. We don't need to do any calculations! Grid automatically removed our 10 pixel gutter track before assigning the space to the `1fr` column tracks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's all we need. We don't need to do any calculations! CSS grid layout automatically removed our 10-pixel gutter track before assigning the space to the `1fr` column tracks.
```

> Up next, we will look at how grid can position items for us - without us needing to use placement properties at all, in the [auto-placement in grid layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout/Auto-placement_in_grid_layout) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Up next, we will look at how CSS grid layout can position items for us without requiring placement properties at all, in the [auto-placement in grid layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout/Auto-placement_in_grid_layout) guide.
```
